Hi there, my name's Leah. I'm one of the junior doctors working in the GP surgery today.  Is it okay if I just check your full name and date of birth, please?  Yeah, of course. It's Camilla Weldon and it's the 3rd of May 1977.  Great, nice to meet you.  Thank you.  Is it okay if I call you Camilla?  Of course.  Brilliant. So how can I help you today?  Yeah, so my father, he's had quite a significant stroke.  Oh gosh, I'm sorry.  Thank you. The doctors did say that that was due to his smoking.  Okay.  I am a smoker. My partner is really worried that this will happen to me,  so he's encouraged me to come and talk to you about just ways of giving up smoking.  Okay, so it sounds like maybe it was your partner that was quite concerned?  Yes.  Yes, I am genuinely pleased to be here and get some advice.  It's just I have tried before and it has not been successful.  Okay, I understand that.  Do you think perhaps we could talk a bit about your smoking in general  and then see where we can go from there?  Yes, of course, yes.  So can I just ask how long have you been smoking for?  So I started smoking when I was 18.  Okay.  Yeah.  Okay, and have you smoked ever since?  Yes.  Okay, and how many, is it cigarettes you smoke?  Yeah.  How many cigarettes per day roughly do you smoke?  So when I started when I was 18, I was smoking 20 a day.  Okay.  But when I had children, I reduced that down to 10 a day.  So my children are 16 and 14.  Okay.  So I have, yeah, but I have maintained 10 a day  since my children were born.  Okay, that's really good.  And how did you find dropping it down?  Did you manage that okay?  I managed that okay.  I'm really careful around the children and that was a big motive.  But just the stress of work, I haven't really been able to stick at no cigarettes permanently.  Okay.  So it was work stress that seems to have been interrupted every time you've stopped previously.  Absolutely.  Okay.  And is there anything else that sort of triggered you to go?  To go back to smoking or is it just the work?  I would say it's really just work.  Yeah, stress of work.  Okay.  And what was it that made you want to give up in the first place with something related to your children, perhaps?  Yeah, initially it was just, you know, I know smoking is not good for anyone and also people around smoke.  So that was that was a big incentive.  And I am very careful.  I don't smoke around the children even now, I go outside.  So that was the incentive.  That was the incentive then, but, you know, just with my father having a stroke, you're made aware, aren't you, of the consequences.  So that is a motivation.  Absolutely.  And when you've tried to give up smoking before, what products have you used or have you used anything?  Yeah, I tried the nicotine patch.  Okay.  But to be honest, it didn't really give a strong enough burst to reduce that craving.  Okay.  Were there particular times that you felt like you needed that burst or was it just all the time, it didn't feel enough?  Really just going back to work, you know, if it was a particularly stressful meeting or there was a load of work piling up, it just didn't seem to take off that craving.  Right.  Okay.  Okay.  So potentially there's a few things we can think about there, which would give you a bit of kind of smoking cessation advice.  Okay.  I think it'd also be helpful to understand a bit more about your general health, if that's okay.  Of course, yeah.  So thank you.  That was really helpful to get to understand a little bit more about your general health.  And I think I agree with your partner and with yourself as well.  It sounds like it's definitely sensible to try to stop smoking given the risks associated with it.  So going forwards, it'd be quite helpful for me to understand your thoughts on how the smoking is affecting you day to day.  Okay.  Yeah, definitely.  So in the morning, I do feel quite chesty.  I'm pretty certain that's down to smoking.  But also, I know when I'm helping the children in the morning to get ready for school, if I haven't had a chance to get out and have a cigarette, I am quite snappy with them and quite short-tempered.  And I'm certain that is obviously to do with, yeah, smoking.  Okay.  And other than that, is there anything that's particularly worrying you about your smoking?  Yeah.  I mean, obviously, my father, you know, having a stroke, that does worry.  It could at some point happen to me.  Before we go on to discuss some of your options, I just wanted to check, is there anything that you particularly don't want us to cover today or any options you don't want to discuss?  I'm really, really not keen on trying e-cigarettes.  Okay.  I've got, you know, as I said, two teenage children.  And I know that is a real thing.  It's teenage children.  And I don't really want to do that because I think it could encourage them to do so.  And I really don't want that to happen.  So I'd rather stay away from that option, if that's okay with you.  Yeah, that's fine.  Thank you.  And I'm sure, as you say, you're already aware of some of the risks, particularly the stroke that your father has unfortunately had.  But I suppose it's not just the stroke that is the risk.  There's other things as well.  So when you mentioned...  It's about your worry with the chestiness that you're feeling in the morning.  So smoking, as I'm sure you're aware, does have quite a lot of problems related to your lungs.  So not just the chestiness and making your asthma worse, but it can also cause kind of other longer term conditions like COPD.  So that's a problem that really affects your breathing in the much longer term for your lungs.  It could also increase your risk of lung cancer as well.  Yeah.  And in terms of the stroke?  That's related to the blood vessels.  So smoking doesn't only cause problems in the blood vessels related to stroke, but it can also cause problems with the blood vessels in the heart and potentially leading to heart attacks.  And also the blood vessels get into your kind of fingers and toes and further down into your legs, which can cause lots of problems with kind of wound healing and blood supply to your legs further down the line.  I hadn't thought of that.  Yeah.  Yeah.  All things to kind of motivate us even more to want to stop.  Mm-hmm.  And I think it's great that you're here.  So if it's okay with you, I'd like to sort of talk about some of your options and maybe explore things a little bit further.  Definitely.  Thank you.  Thank you.  So just to check before I explain some of those options, I just wanted to make sure that you don't have any questions or concerns so far.  No, no.  I'm really happy with, yeah, everything's very clear so far.  Thank you.  Okay.  So there's two sort of types of support that we can offer you.  Some of those might be medications.  So kind of...  Some of them are kind of similar to the nicotine patch that you've tried before, but some of them are not medications and just trying to offer you support to help you succeed this time around.  Hopefully, yes.  So in terms of the medications, I think it sounds like last time you've tried to use the patch, it didn't really do what you wanted it to.  Is that fair to say?  No, absolutely.  And it sounds like from what you've told me, you need something that's got a bit more of a sort of a quick action when you're having those particularly stressful times.  Ideally, yes.  Okay.  Have you heard of nicotine sprays or nicotinamide?  Nicotine chewing gum before, have you ever heard of anybody using those?  No, I haven't.  Okay.  So it does a very similar thing to the nicotine patch, but instead of providing sort of a low-level background amount of nicotine, it just has that quick burst for when you need it.  So that might be something to consider.  Definitely, definitely.  Good.  Yes.  And then from the other kind of selection of support things we can offer you, we know that it's really, really difficult to give up smoking.  And so the fact that you're here to try again is fantastic.  Thank you.  But actually, we know that it's really, really difficult to give up smoking.  Thank you. But actually, we know that it's really, really difficult to give up smoking.  And we know that people are a lot more successful with trying to give up if they have support from somebody else.  So we could offer you sort of a telephone support appointment where somebody could call you and just check in on how you're doing, if you think that would be helpful.  That's great.  That's amazing.  Thank you.  Yeah.  Good.  And then obviously, lastly, I would like to check in with you as well and just see how you're getting on.  Thank you.  So if it's okay with you, I'd quite like to arrange sort of a follow-up just so I can call you via telephone sometime next week just to see how you're doing.  So if it's okay with you, I'd quite like to arrange sort of a follow-up just so I can call you via telephone sometime next week just to see how you're doing.  And check in with you sort of after the first week or so.  Do you think that would be okay?  That's just really amazing.  Thank you.  Fabulous.  Thank you.  Okay.  So I think that sounds like quite a good combination of things.  What I'm quite keen to get the ball rolling is to pick a date that works for you for you to say, you know, today's the day I'm going to start stopping, as it were.  No.  Thank you so much.  I think, well, definitely, it would make sense  to start tomorrow because it's Friday when I finish work.  Okay.  I've got the weekend to, you know, no paperwork, stress-free, so I could sort of just get a good start.  Yeah, I think that would be a hopeful, positive, good chance of a good start if I do it then.  That sounds really good.  And tomorrow's definitely a good start.  Not trying to put it off too much.  Yeah.  Brilliant.  And do you think you'd feel comfortable to tell your friends and family about that kind of stop date that tomorrow's the day?  Yeah.  I mean, obviously, my partner's very supportive, obviously encouraged me to come, but I think I'm quite excited to tell the children.  That's a big motivator.  So I will.  And it's fantastic that, you know, you can check in.  Would it sort of...  How about maybe then sort of at the end of next week?  Because, you know, it might just get me an incentive to get through the week.  Do you think?  Yeah, that sounds good.  I can book you in to call you next Friday, see how you're getting on.  Certainly an incentive.  Brilliant.  Thank you.  That's okay.  So just to kind of think through that next week then before I ring you on Friday, can you think of any kind of challenges that you might face during that week and how you're going to try and overcome those?  And what do you think, what are some of the things you'd like to do to keep up with the success of not smoking?  Yeah.  Well certainly, I mean, I do sometimes have a couple of cigarettes in an evening, but that's more habit out of, you know, so I think I can, you know, manage that.  But certainly I know it'll happen during a very stressful moment at work.  But I think the spray or the gum seems a lot more hopeful.  If it can give me a whole day off.  can give me a more intense quicker sort of burst yeah absolutely so i have that to hand when you're  having those kind of cravings at work and you feel that stress coming on good to have something  that's close by that you know you can reach for instead of a cigarette definitely and have that  as your sort of action plan if if that difficult situation arises definitely that sounds good  absolutely i'm sure it'll help massively brilliant so i guess the remaining hurdle is just to make  sure that in in that moment of stress that you don't have cigarettes to reach for at all because  it takes away that option yeah so what we do suggest is actually just removing all of the  cigarettes from your home from your kind of bag from anywhere that you could easily get hold of  one just so that it takes away that temptation and that makes people much more likely to be  successful in stopping and do you think that's something you would be happy to do yeah i will  purely you know i might run out the shop and buy some  but um knowing i've got that spray i feel will will yeah make that possible okay yes i will  good brilliant yes i will that sounds good and it sounds like we've got a plan that hopefully  you feel like it is going to work for you and but as i say it is difficult and there will  certainly be times where you find it really hard but hopefully there's lots of support there so  it sounds like it's going to work for you yeah i think it's going to work for you yeah i think  it sounds like your partner and your children will be really happy that you're giving it a go  again um and there'll be the telephone appointments and whether smoking support  service will ring you to check in on you but also there'll be the appointment with me next  week yeah i think it seems that it's yeah it it's more realistic that it could it could be  helpful but i'm definitely willing to try it i'm really grateful fantastic that's really good to  hear and what i'll do is i'll just give you a couple of leaflets to take away with you  just so that you've got that bit of information if you want to have a read around things and  just some of your other options as well in case anything else does interest you  then you can always kind of ask me about those when i speak to you again on friday  um but in the meantime i wish you the best of luck thank you so much have you got any  other questions that you want to ask before we finish today no you you've been really helpful  and i'm really grateful for those suggestions and that support i i really feel  confident and happy to to try it fantastic thank you fantastic well best of luck and i'll  speak to you on friday thank you if you enjoyed this video check out the geeky medics collection  of over 500 oski stations and put your roski skills to the test you can practice with friends  create your own study group or team up with another member of the geeky medics community  with our oski match feature sign up today to access our selection of free oski stations