 Hi there, my name's Leah. I'm one of the junior doctors working in the GP surgery. Is it okay  if I just check your name and date of birth, please? Yeah, so it's Camilla, Camilla Weldon,  and it's the 3rd of May, 1977. Nice to meet you. Is it okay if I call you Camilla today? Yeah,  course. Fabulous. So how can I help you today, Camilla? Yeah, so the doctor I saw last week,  he rang me yesterday to say that I had some blood tests and he just said that the blood test said I  had diabetes. So it was just to come and have a chat to you about, really about that. Okay. So  how are you feeling about being told that news over the phone? To be honest, I was relieved  because at least I sort of now know what's going on but I have to say I'm a little bit anxious  because I don't know a lot about diabetes but I know that it is caused by lack of exercise and  not eating very well and I've got a lot of work to do if that's the case. Okay and was there anything  that you were particularly worried about that we might be talking about today um yeah it's just um  so my colleague at work um had mentioned that he has to have quite regular tests for his eyes  but also for his feet um and he talks about long-termly it could lead to him losing sensation  in his feet but also him losing his eyesight and that really does obviously worry me  is that something you'd like to talk a bit more about today yeah if you've got the time  yeah okay okay not to worry um so i think to start off with it'd be helpful if i could  understand a little bit about your general health and a bit about some of the lifestyle  factors that you mentioned maybe a bit of work to do okay and just so i can understand sort of  where you're coming from and how we can advise you with some with some help in managing the  diabetes is that okay thank you yes yes okay um so what symptoms did you come in with initially  I know you mentioned you felt a bit tired but what kind of things were you experiencing when  you saw the GP to start with um I was feeling tired and just quite washed out okay but over a  few months I had had thrush and some urine infections, so I did mention that to the doctor  as well.  Okay, and was that unusual for you to have those infections?  Yeah.  Okay.  thank you for that it's been helpful to understand a little bit about your kind of health in general  a bit more about you hopefully that will help us give some more information in terms of the diabetes  so i suppose we just need to talk a little bit more about the diabetes itself and what that  actually means yeah um so in people who don't have diabetes what happens when you eat food is  it's broken down into sugar molecules called glucose and that sugar goes round around the  body to places where it's needed to be used. And in order to store the glucose in the cells where  we need to use it, there's a hormone called insulin. Have you heard of that before? I have  heard of it, yes. Okay, so insulin's job is to move sugar from the blood into cells and to store  it to be used for later. So what happens in diabetes is because there's lots and lots of  sugar going around all of the time the body stops really recognizing that the sugar there it almost  becomes normal for the sugar to be that high so the body stops making as much insulin because it  doesn't think it needs to move that sugar into the cells another thing that can happen is because  there's so much sugar being moved all the time into the cells the cells sort of stop paying  attention to insulin anyway so even if we do make some insulin it doesn't really do its job properly  anymore wow does that make sense yeah yeah okay are you happy if i just kind of ask you to  summarize what we've just gone through just to make sure i've explained it i'll do my best but  what i understand is that um so we eat food and it gets broken down to sugar glucose in in the blood  and that's carried um by insulin to cells that need the sugar to do their functions  but diabetes we have too much sugar in the blood and something happens to the body and that becomes  the normal for the body so it doesn't really think it's got too much so it's producing less  insulin so insulin obviously is not there to move it but then also it affects the cells the cells  suddenly just don't pay any attention to insulin so they just don't even accept any of the sugar  hence that build-up is there so it's the sugar being high in the blood that causes the problems  that some of the problems it sounds like your colleague might be experiencing so we can think  about the complications of diabetes in sort of a short term and then a longer term kind of time  period. Okay. So some of the short-term problems that patients with diabetes commonly experience  are infections. So when you mentioned earlier about the water infections and the thrush. Yes,  yes. It may be that that was to do with the fact you had quite high blood sugars at the time.  Oh my goodness, okay, yeah, yeah. So what happens when there's lots of sugar in the blood is the  kidneys filter the blood and some of that sugar gets into the urine which means that bacteria  which love sugar can use that sugar to grow and cause the infections okay okay and then when we  move on to thinking about the longer term complications it causes problems because the  glucose going round and round in the blood damages the blood vessels so there's a selection of small  blood vessels and some bigger blood vessels that that causes problems for so in the small blood  vessels they're the blood vessels that are found behind the eyes and the blood vessels that supply  the nerves to the fingers and toes and also the blood vessels in the kidneys are quite small as  well okay so when you mentioned earlier about your colleague getting his eyes checked and yeah his  feet checked to check he could still feel things properly that's probably to make sure that he  wasn't getting those those complications of diabetes i understand it makes sense yes thank  you thank you and then the other things are sort of in the bigger blood vessels so there's some  quite big blood vessels in the brain and there's some big blood vessels in the heart as well  so if those blood vessels get damaged they can cause things like strokes and problems with the  heart so heart disease and heart attacks potentially so hopefully we can talk through  how we can manage the condition a little bit better to try and reduce those risks as much as  possible of course of course um does that make sense so far yeah i think that's yeah it does  make sense thank you thank you  and what i'll do is i'll give you a few leaflets for you to take away as well so you can have a  little read between now and when you're next to see us and if you've got any questions please  just you know give us a call or you can book in to speak to one of the GPs again. Thank you so much  thank you. Lovely to meet you thank you for your time. Thank you. If you enjoyed this video check out the  Geeky Medics collection of over 500 OSCE stations and put your OSCE skills to the test. You can  practice with friends, create your own study group or team up with another member of the Geeky Medics  community with our OSCE Match feature. Sign up today to access our selection of free OSCE stations. 